.TH INCEPTION 1 "January 2026" "Inception 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
inception \- Knowledge compiler with temporal reasoning and autonomous gap resolution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inception
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Inception ingests video/audio/PDF/web, extracts structured knowledge into a temporal hypergraph, cross-validates claims, autonomously fills gaps, and exports executable Action Packs.
.PP
All processing runs locally with OAuth-based LLM access (no API keys required).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to configuration file
.TP
.BR \-\-offline
Run in offline mode (cached models only)
.TP
.BR \-\-seed " " \fINUM\fR
Random seed for reproducibility
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show version and exit
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Content Ingestion
.TP
.B ingest \fIURI\fR
Ingest a source (URL or file path). Supports YouTube videos/channels/playlists, web pages, PDFs, and other document formats.
.TP
.B ingest-channel \fIURL\fR
Ingest a YouTube channel incrementally with date filtering.
.TP
.B ingest-batch \fIFILE\fR
Ingest multiple sources from a JSONL file.
.SS Knowledge Exploration
.TP
.B query \fITEXT\fR
Query the knowledge graph using natural language.
.TP
.B export \fITARGET\fR
Export data from the knowledge graph (formats: json, csv, obsidian, markdown).
.TP
.B list-sources
List all ingested sources.
.TP
.B stats
Show database statistics.
.TP
.B gaps
List knowledge gaps detected in the graph.
.SS Interface Commands
.TP
.B serve
Start the Inception API server.
.TP
.B tui
Launch the Terminal User Interface.
.TP
.B explore
Interactive knowledge exploration (alias for tui).
.SS Authentication
.TP
.B auth setup \fIPROVIDER\fR
Set up OAuth for a provider (claude, gemini, openai).
.TP
.B auth status
Show authentication status for all providers.
.TP
.B auth revoke \fIPROVIDER\fR
Revoke authentication for a provider.
.SS Learning Engine
.TP
.B learn \-a \fIACTION\fR
Execute a learning step with RLVR reward.
.TP
.B train
Run DAPO+GRPO training update.
.TP
.B learning-stats
Show learning engine statistics.
.SS Development
.TP
.B doctor
Check environment and dependencies.
.TP
.B test
Run the test suite.
.TP
.B skillify \fITARGET\fR
Convert a procedure node into an executable skill.
.TP
.B action-pack \fITARGET\fR
Generate an Action Pack from a procedure.
.TP
.B completions \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completions (bash, zsh, fish).
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Ingest a YouTube video:
.B inception ingest https://youtube.com/watch?v=abc123
.TP
Search the knowledge graph:
.B inception query "How does OAuth authentication work?"
.TP
Export to Obsidian:
.B inception export obsidian \-o ~/Documents/vault
.TP
Start the web interface:
.B inception serve \-\-reload
.TP
Set up Claude OAuth:
.B inception auth setup claude
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B INCEPTION_CONFIG
Path to configuration file
.TP
.B INCEPTION_DATA
Data directory (default: ~/.inception)
.TP
.B INCEPTION_OFFLINE
Set to 1 for offline mode
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.inception/config.yaml
User configuration file
.TP
.I ~/.inception/data.lmdb
Knowledge graph database
.TP
.I ~/.inception/cache/
Cached models and embeddings
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR inception-ingest (1),
.BR inception-query (1),
.BR inception-auth (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Inception team.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/kroma/inception/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. This is free software.
